well the United Nations children agency
UNICEF is measuring child food poverty
that's an estimate of how nutritious and
how diverse a child's food should be it
measures three categories five or more
food groups is above the threshold but
if a child is only eating from four food
groups or fewer they are living in
moderate food poverty and if they only
have access to two food groupes or fewer
that's severe food poverty UNICEF is
saying that one in four of the world's
children under the age of five are
living in severe food poverty half of
the world's children are experiencing
food poverty overall report says
household income is not the only factor
that leads to severe food poverty
children from so-called nonpoor
households can be affected as
well Alexandra Ritz house Pereira is
head of nutrition action against hunger
UK she joins us from kadis in Spain can
I ask you about the uh Geographic
concentration of this report about the
whereabouts which sort of population are
you most concerned
about yeah thank you very much um so the
the report uh has data that comes from
130 countries so it's it's it's a report
that has been done with extensive uh
data and we we have to to commend uh
Unicef on on on the quality of the data
they use for for the report um but
obviously um the the data are more
reporting on uh the region of subaran
Africa uh South Asia which are the most
affected uh regions of the world with uh
F child food poverty um so the Africa
region in general Latin America Asia are
the the most um there are also the data
uh from which we have the countries from
which have more data uh unfortunately
very often uh we lack a lot of data on
on Child Nutrition uh child nutritional
status in in Europe uh or or United
States why is
that uh simply because uh there are uh
less uh Civil Society uh being involved
in uh in collecting those data um those
countries are also less affected by
conflict uh or human
situation um therefore there's not a
regular uh collection of of those of
those datas so so tell me in terms of it
it seems as though mean from this report
millions of families are struggling to
provide nutritious uh and diverse foods
for their
children you mentioned that there is a
the there is a difference in the data
you've collected from uh Europe and
North America compared to uh subsaharan
Africa and those countries what is the
main cause of this I know it's a very
broad report but are we is it conflict
is it the climate crisis is it growing
inequities Rising food prices what would
you say the main factors Driving Child
food
poverty you've you you've pretty much
named them all um so there there is
indeed so there are uh Global factors uh
the you know the the crisis in Ukraine
as well as we know has has driven the
the prices of the food of main stable
food up as well that has been a factor
uh we are still facing uh the
consequences of the the covid-19
epidemic as well on how it has affected
Health Systems as well uh in in
countries where there was already a
fragile Health System uh and then uh
climate climate shocks uh conflicts that
also impairs uh parents to have access
uh to the the right food they need for
their childrens are are very important
factors that drive food poverty in
children and of course there is always a
there is always concern about the
physical effects of this on the body of
a child but how does it affect affect
cognitive uh brain development ability
to
learn yeah exactly so those children and
the the report mentioned that there is
definitely a link between child food
poverty and malnutrition and that the
country that are most affected by what
we call chronic malnutrition or
stunting uh are uh definitely more
affected by severe food poverty in
children and what it does is indeed
children are not growing up to their
food potential not only physically but
in terms of cognitive ability so they
are are not doing as well as they should
at school which means that later on in
in in life they won't have access to the
same opportunities has a child who has
the appropriate have the appropriate
food um in their youth and this has of
course then economic consequences for
government uh and it's a type of vicious
circle uh where if if governments don't
invest into their nutrition services um
they will never have the budget that
they need to take care of the population
the way they require thank you very much
Alexandre rala Pera thank you for
joining
us thank you for having
me make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer